php-build(5) -- Definition Format
=================================

## SYNOPSIS

    # Add/Delete flags passed to `configure`.
    configure_option <FLAG> [<VALUE>]
    configure_option -R <FLAG> [<VALUE>]
    configure_option -D <FLAG>

    # Download and compile a PHP package from <URL>
    install_package <URL>

    # Checkout branch from Git repository
    install_package_from_github master

    # Download and compile XDebug version tarball.
    install_xdebug <VERSION>

    # Use XDebug from <https://github.com/derickr/xdebug>. Development
    # versions of PHP need the latest XDebug from master.
    install_xdebug_master

## DESCRIPTION

php-build definitions are Shell source files which get sourced by the `php-build`
command. Therefore you can put _everything_ in a definition file that's _valid_
Shell source code.

php-build defines some custom commands, which aid in building, downloading
and compiling PHP tarballs and often needed add-on features such as XDebug.

## BUILTIN COMMANDS

 * `install_package` <URL>:
   Downloads the source tarball from <URL>, extracts it to
   `/var/tmp/php-build/source` and compiles it to the <PREFIX>
   provided at the invocation of php-build(1).
   `.gz` _and_ `.bz2` tarballs are supported.
 * `install_package_from_github` <BRANCH> [<REPO>]:
   Downloads tarball from given branch from the Github Repo <REPO>. <REPO>
   defaults to `php/php-src`.
 * `configure_option` [`-R`] <FLAG> [<VALUE>]:
   Adds the <FLAG> to the list of options passed to PHP's `configure`.
   When <VALUE> is present, then <FLAG>=<VALUE> is added to the list
   of configure options.
   Replaces the value of the existing <FLAG> with a new <VALUE> when
   the `-R` option is present.
 * `configure_option` `-D` <FLAG>:
   Deletes the <FLAG> from the list of configure options.
 * `with_openssl`:
   Adds `--with-openssl` to the list of configure options.
   Legacy command, which is left in for backwards compatibility with definitions
   written before `--with-openssl` was moved to the default configure options.

## ADDING COMMANDS

Definition commands can be added via _plugins_. Plugins are, like definitions, Shell
files which are automatically loaded from `share/php-build/plugins.d`.

Plugin files _must_ have the extension `.sh`.

php-build(1) displays a list of loaded plugins at startup.

Due to how functions are handled in Shell, plugins can define new functions as well
as _override_ existing functions. Though it's _not_ recommended for plugin authors
to override builtin definition commands.

Plugins can use a set of environment variables to do actions on the built files,
as well as all builtin commands.

### AVAILABLE VARIABLES

 * `DEFINITION`:
   Contains the name of the requested definition, e.g. `5.4.0`. When a
   file path was passed as definition, then this contains the path's basename.
 * `DEFINITION_PATH`:
   The absolute path to the definition file which was sourced.
 * `PREFIX`:
   The path where source files will be built into.
 * `TMP`:
   Path for (persistent) temporary files.
 * `CONFIGURE_OPTIONS`:
   Argument list passed to `configure`, separated by line feeds.
 * `PHP_BUILD_ROOT`:
   Root of the php-build(1) install, for example `/usr/local`.
 * `LOG_PATH`:
   Path to the currently used log file.

## CORE PLUGINS

### XDEBUG

 * `install_xdebug` <VERSION>:
   Downloads the tarball for <VERSION> from the XDebug web site,
   installs it and enables it for the PHP version in <PREFIX>.
 * `install_xdebug_master` [<SHA1>]:
   Checks out the XDebug from the Git Repository and installs it. When
   a Git commit ID is passed as <SHA1> then this specific Commit ID is used
   instead of the current `HEAD`.

